Release Notes -- Apache Geronimo -- Version 2.2.1


Geronimo URLs
-------------
Home Page:     http://geronimo.apache.org/
Downloads:     http://geronimo.apache.org/downloads.html
Documentation: http://geronimo.apache.org/documentation.html
Mailing Lists: http://geronimo.apache.org/mailing-lists.html
Source Code:   http://geronimo.apache.org/source-code.html
Bug Tracking:  http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GERONIMO
Wiki:          http://cwiki.apache.org/geronimo


Documentation
-------------
Please see http://cwiki.apache.org/GMOxDOC22/documentation.html for the
latest documentation on this release.


System Requirements
-------------------
You need a platform that supports the Sun JDK 5.0+ (J2SE 1.5.0+) or greater.

Most testing has been done on Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows.


Geronimo 2.2.1 Enhancements
-------------------------

Annotation based gbeans
- GBean metadata can be specified via annotations rather than static code blocks.
  In addition, collection-valued annotated constructor arguments support both plain and
  wildcard generics.

Improvements to plugin generation and custom server assemblies
- The car-maven-plugin now follows maven transitive dependencies by default.
  This greatly simplifies including all needed jars and cars into a custom server
  assembly.

Clustering Support
- WADI can now be used to support clustering of stateful seesion beans as well
  as web applications.
- As an alternative to the deployment-based clustering support, the set of plugins
  deployed in a cluster can now be centrally managed.  In this
  scheme, cluster membership is maintained through a multicast heartbeat, and
  plugin-plugin-list and plugin-list-cluster association is tracked in a database.

ActiveMQ 5.3.0
- We have upgraded to the latest released ActiveMQ version.  The ActiveMQ broker is
  now configured through the native activemq/xbean/spring native xml.

Jetty 7
- Jetty support is upgraded to Jetty 7 from the eclipse foundation.  This includes considerable
  amounts of servlet 3.0 functionality, and JASPIC support.

Tomcat
- The Tomcat server is now configured through native server.xml configuration files rather than gbeans.

JASPIC support (jsr-196)
- Both the jetty and tomcat servers include tck-compliant support for the jsr-196 JASPIC specification
  servlet profile. This enables standards-based integration of authentication protocols such as openId,
  SPNEGO, and various SSO providers into container-managed authentication.

App-independent principal-role mapping
- principal-role mapping can be configured independently of an application and used by reference.

Geronimo 2.2.1 Issues Resolved
------------------------------
** Bug
GERONIMO-5383 Update to new versions of CXF and Axis2 

Certification Status
--------------------
Apache Geronimo v2.2.1 has passed 100% of SUN's Java Enterprise Edition 5.0 
Certification Test Suite. See "Distributions" for further details.


Distributions
-------------
Apache Geronimo v2.2.1 is available in five distributions so you can pick the 
one that best fits your environment.

The available distributions are as follows:

Certified distributions:
- Apache Geronimo with Tomcat web container, AXIS2 for Web Services and OpenJPA
  for persistence.
- Apache Geronimo with Jetty web container, CXF for Web Services and OpenJPA 
  for persistence.

Non-Certified distributions:
- Little-G with Tomcat web container, minimal configuration.
- Little-G with Jetty web container, minimal configuration.
- Geronimo framework, stripped down Geronimo pluggable framework.

Note: Non-Certified distributions do not contain a complete JavaEE5 stack and
so cannot be certified.  Certified distributions can be reconfigured by the
user (such as Tomcat web container with CXF for Web Services). 


Supported features
------------------
All programming elements of the Java EE 5.0 Specification are available.  

