Release Notes -- Apache Geronimo -- Version 2.1.7


Geronimo URLs
-------------
Home Page:     http://geronimo.apache.org/
Downloads:     http://geronimo.apache.org/downloads.html
Documentation: http://geronimo.apache.org/documentation.html
Mailing Lists: http://geronimo.apache.org/mailing-lists.html
Source Code:   http://geronimo.apache.org/source-code.html
Bug Tracking:  http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GERONIMO
Wiki:          http://cwiki.apache.org/geronimo


Documentation
-------------
Please see http://cwiki.apache.org/GMOxDOC21/documentation.html for the
latest documentation on this release.


System Requirements
-------------------
You need a platform that supports the Sun JDK 5.0+ (J2SE 1.5.0+) or greater.

Most testing has been done on Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows.


Geronimo 2.1 Enhancements
-------------------------

Custom server assemblies
- Lightweight server assemblies may be created that contain only the functional 
  components required by your application(s).

Flexible admin console
- The admin console is now component-based to mirror the server capabilities. 
  This allows the admin console to provide flexible administrative capabilities 
  that will mirrors the capabilities of a custom server assembly.

GShell
- GShell is a command-line processing environment that can be used for the execution
  of Geronimo commands. GShell is an extensible environment and includes support
  for editing, command history, and tab completion. 

Clustering Support
- WADI can now be used to support clustering of web applications for Geronimo configurations 
  which use the Tomcat Web Container (WADI support for Jetty was in previous releases). 
- Applications can be deployed to administratively-defined groups of Geronimo servers

Monitoring Console Plugin
- The monitoring console plugin provides monitoring support in the Geronimo admin console. 
  The monitoring console can gather statistics and performance data from multiple Geronimo 
  servers and graphically display this data to users.

Plan Creator (added in Geronimo 2.1.2)
- Plan Creator is a new portlet added to administration console to simplify the creation of 
  Geronimo specific deployment plans. Given a web application archive (war), Plan Creator walks 
  the user through a sequence of steps and generates geronimo-web.xml automatically.


Geronimo 2.1.7 Issues Resolved
------------------------------
** Bug
GERONIMO-5706 When derby authentication is disabled, DB manager portlet run SQL error: Caused by: java.sql.SQLException: Schema 'DBADMIN' does not exist
GERONIMO-5695 Upgrade wadi to 2.1.2
GERONIMO-5693 Encryption logic for connectionPassword attribute in ldap realm
GERONIMO-5692 Unlock keystore command line utility does not work with Configured Encryption
GERONIMO-5691 Farming module provision of utilizing encrypted password instead of plain text
GERONIMO-5690 Clustering module fails to start on disabling JMXService gbean
GERONIMO-5683 Thread safety for needScanJar(), scanJar(), and scannedJars.add() in GeronimoTldLocationsCache 
GERONIMO-5672 Overriding an env-entry in geronimo-web.xml fails with a DeploymentException
GERONIMO-5640 Qualified web resource permission for each role should be calculated based its own url set
GERONIMO-5638 Remove the encrypt(String) method in ConfiguredEncryption 
GERONIMO-5591 Removing the least used and oldest statements from prepared statement cache 
GERONIMO-5590 startup script does not consume --help option 
GERONIMO-5578 incorrect behaviour of security-constraint configuration in web.xml 
GERONIMO-5558 Transaction Commit status is not configured correctly 
GERONIMO-5540 Enable connecting to a ldap server anonymously on console on Geronimo 2.1 and 3.0 
GERONIMO-5530 NullPointerException during MDB deployment 
GERONIMO-5519 Transaction recovery might commit the wrong branch on an XAResource 
GERONIMO-5452 PersistenceUnitBuilder cannot find persistence.xml on inPlace deployments 
GERONIMO-5424 Encrypt truststore pass for tomcat web ssl connector 
GERONIMO-5402 Incorrect instructions to utilize ConfiguredEncryption 
GERONIMO-5401 Geronimo encrypts empty passwords 
GERONIMO-5384 Geronimo console doesn't seem to handle % in sql statements right. 
GERONIMO-5330 env-entry values should not be trimmed
GERONIMO-5305 DisableMcastInterceptor GBean should disable the mcast receiver also with mcast sender 
GERONIMO-5167 " ERROR [JNDIReferenceFactory] null" when I deploy new JMS Resource Group for Active MQ 
GERONIMO-4757 "java.lang.IllegalStateException" error when use install-plugin goal 
GERONIMO-4217 Check for all data primitive types when shortcutting to the primordial classloader

** Improvement
GERONIMO-5696 Add db2 for iSeries tranql xa connector to server
GERONIMO-5676 Improve testsuite execution structure in order to be able to run all suites against a manual started server
GERONIMO-5533 Upgrade to Tomcat 6.0.29
GERONIMO-5206 Assembly may start failed when server-security-config car is not assembled
GERONIMO-5196 Add a own authenticator for Spnego login
GERONIMO-4583 Remove obsolete plugins from plugins group
GERONIMO-4296 Start Derby NetworkServerControl with credentials to prevent unauthorized shutdowns

** New Feature
GERONIMO-5197 Generic Header based authentication support in geronimo


Certification Status
--------------------
Apache Geronimo v2.1.7 has passed 100% of SUN's Java Enterprise Edition 5.0 
Certification Test Suite. See "Distributions" for further details.


Distributions
-------------
Apache Geronimo v2.1.7 is available in five distributions so you can pick the 
one that best fits your environment.

The available distributions are as follows:

Certified distributions:
- Apache Geronimo with Tomcat web container, AXIS2 for Web Services and OpenJPA
  for persistence.
- Apache Geronimo with Jetty web container, CXF for Web Services and OpenJPA 
  for persistence.

Non-Certified distributions:
- Little-G with Tomcat web container, minimal configuration.
- Little-G with Jetty web container, minimal configuration.
- Geronimo framework, stripped down Geronimo pluggable framework.

Note: Non-Certified distributions do not contain a complete JavaEE5 stack and so 
cannot be certified.  Certified distributions can be reconfigured by the user 
(such as Tomcat web container with CXF for Web Services). 


Supported features
------------------
All programming elements of the Java EE 5.0 Specification are available.  


Known Issues and Limitations
----------------------------
** Bug
GERONIMO-5700 Active MQ Fixes in geronimo for AMQ-1779, AMQ-1431 and AMQ-1760
GERONIMO-5431 Web Connector portlet does not persist values
GERONIMO-4861 Deployment Plan XML Parsing - Not add generated namespace names to closing tags
GERONIMO-4668 Parse XML error after deploying a EJB security jar

