Release Notes -- Apache Geronimo -- Version 2.1.6


Geronimo URLs
-------------
Home Page:     http://geronimo.apache.org/
Downloads:     http://geronimo.apache.org/downloads.html
Documentation: http://geronimo.apache.org/documentation.html
Mailing Lists: http://geronimo.apache.org/mailing-lists.html
Source Code:   http://geronimo.apache.org/source-code.html
Bug Tracking:  http://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GERONIMO
Wiki:          http://cwiki.apache.org/geronimo


Documentation
-------------
Please see http://cwiki.apache.org/GMOxDOC21/documentation.html for the
latest documentation on this release.


System Requirements
-------------------
You need a platform that supports the Sun JDK 5.0+ (J2SE 1.5.0+) or greater.

Most testing has been done on Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows.


Geronimo 2.1 Enhancements
-------------------------

Custom server assemblies
- Lightweight server assemblies may be created that contain only the functional 
  components required by your application(s).

Flexible admin console
- The admin console is now component-based to mirror the server capabilities. 
  This allows the admin console to provide flexible administrative capabilities 
  that will mirrors the capabilities of a custom server assembly.

GShell
- GShell is a command-line processing environment that can be used for the execution
  of Geronimo commands. GShell is an extensible environment and includes support
  for editing, command history, and tab completion. 

Clustering Support
- WADI can now be used to support clustering of web applications for Geronimo configurations 
  which use the Tomcat Web Container (WADI support for Jetty was in previous releases). 
- Applications can be deployed to administratively-defined groups of Geronimo servers

Monitoring Console Plugin
- The monitoring console plugin provides monitoring support in the Geronimo admin console. 
  The monitoring console can gather statistics and performance data from multiple Geronimo 
  servers and graphically display this data to users.

Plan Creator (added in Geronimo 2.1.2)
- Plan Creator is a new portlet added to administration console to simplify the creation of 
  Geronimo specific deployment plans. Given a web application archive (war), Plan Creator walks 
  the user through a sequence of steps and generates geronimo-web.xml automatically.


Geronimo 2.1.6 Issues Resolved
------------------------------
** Bug
GERONIMO-5383 Update to new versions of CXF and Axis2 
GERONIMO-5387 Update the spring framework version used in Geronimo. 
GERONIMO-5391 Update the Xerces impl version to 2.10.0

Certification Status
--------------------
Apache Geronimo v2.1.x has passed 100% of SUN's Java Enterprise Edition 5.0 
Certification Test Suite. See "Distributions" for further details.


Distributions
-------------
Apache Geronimo v2.1.x is available in five distributions so you can pick the 
one that best fits your environment.

The available distributions are as follows:

Certified distributions:
- Apache Geronimo with Tomcat web container, AXIS2 for Web Services and OpenJPA
  for persistence.
- Apache Geronimo with Jetty web container, CXF for Web Services and OpenJPA 
  for persistence.

Non-Certified distributions:
- Little-G with Tomcat web container, minimal configuration.
- Little-G with Jetty web container, minimal configuration.
- Geronimo framework, stripped down Geronimo pluggable framework.

Note: Non-Certified distributions do not contain a complete JavaEE5 stack and so 
cannot be certified.  Certified distributions can be reconfigured by the user 
(such as Tomcat web container with CXF for Web Services). 


Supported features
------------------
All programming elements of the Java EE 5.0 Specification are available.  


Known Issues and Limitations
----------------------------
** Bug
GERONIMO-5181 Modification to Database connection pool parameters are not saved when restart Geronimo. 
GERONIMO-5160 Fail to create Database Pool for DB2(DataDirect) and Informix(DataDirect) 
GERONIMO-5137 EJB security config in ejb-jar.xml does not override the ones defined via security annotations 
GERONIMO-4901 Shutting down Geronimo destroys pending Timers 
GERONIMO-4887 java.lang.SecurityException: Invalid login when edit a running jmx server 
GERONIMO-4845 the view is also existed after I delete the server in monitoting portlet 
GERONIMO-4775 Need to convert static English images into translatable text in Admin console 
GERONIMO-4757 "java.lang.IllegalStateException" error when use install-plugin goal 
GERONIMO-4731 Jetty build does not support IPV6 address in browser. 
GERONIMO-4688 hardcode port in plan.xml of plugin farming. 
GERONIMO-4634 PlanCreator does not work for some applications

